# Harmony Browse Image Generator (HyBIG).

This Harmony backend service is designed to produce browse imagery, with
default behaviour to produce browse imagery that is compatible with the NASA
Global Image Browse Services ([GIBS](https://www.earthdata.nasa.gov/eosdis/science-system-description/eosdis-components/gibs)).

This means that defaults for images are selected to match the visualization
generation requirements and recommendations put forth in the GIBS Interface
Control Document (ICD), which can be found on [Earthdata
Wiki](https://wiki.earthdata.nasa.gov/display/GITC/Ingest+Delivery+Methods)
along with [additional GIBS
documentation](https://nasa-gibs.github.io/gibs-api-docs/).

HyBIG creates paletted PNG images and associated metadata from GeoTIFF input
images. Scientific parameter raster data as well as RGB[A] raster images can
be converted to browse PNGs.  These browse images undergo transformation by
reprojection, tiling and coloring to seamlessly integrate with GIBS.

### Reprojection

GIBS expects to receive images in one of three Coordinate Reference System (CRS) projections.

| Region      | Code      | Name                                                      |
|-------------|-----------|-----------------------------------------------------------|
| north polar | EPSG:3413 | WGS 84 / NSIDC Sea Ice Polar Stereographic North          |
| south polar | EPSG:3031 | WGS 84 / Antarctic Polar Stereographic                    |
| global      | EPSG:4326 | WGS 84 -- WGS84 - World Geodetic System 1984, used in GPS |

HyBIG processing will attempt to choose a GIBS-suitable target CRS from the
input image or read it from the inputs.  Reprojection is done by resampling via
nearest neighbor. It is important to note that HyBig outputs are not scientific
data, but browse imagery and should not be used for scientific analysis.


### Tiling

Large output images are divided into smaller, more manageable tiles for
efficient handling and processing, as per agreement with GIBS. The maximum
untiled image size generated by HyBIG is 67,108,864 cells (8,192 x 8,192). If
the output image exceeds this threshold, HyBIG automatically tiles the output
into multiple 4,096 x 4,096 cell images.

Tiled images are labeled with the zero-based column and row numbers inserted
into the output filename before its
extension. For example, `VCF5KYR_1991001_001_2018224205008.r01c02.png` represents the
second row and third column of the output tiles.  The tiles at the edges are
truncated to fit the overall image dimensions.  Currently, you cannot override
this behavior.

### Coloring

HyBIG images are colored in several ways. A palette can be included in the
input [STAC
Item](https://github.com/radiantearth/stac-spec/blob/master/item-spec/item-spec.md). If
an Item's asset contains a value with the role of `palette`, it is assumed to
be a reference to a remote color table, which is fetched from the asset's
`href` and parsed as a GDAL color table.

If the STAC Item lacks color information, the Harmony message source is
searched for a related URL with a "content type" of `VisualizationURL` and a
"type" of `Color Map`. If found, it is presumed to be a remote color table and
fetched from that location.

In the absence of remote color information, the input image itself is searched
for a color map, which is used if present.

If no color information can be found, grayscale is used.

### Defaults

HyBIG tries to provide GIBS-appropriate default values for the browse image
outputs.  When a user does not provide a target values for the output, HyBIG
will try to pick an appropriate default.

#### Coordinate Reference System (CRS)

HyBIG selects a default CRS from the list of GIBS preferred projections. The
steps followed are simple but effective:

1. If the `proj` is `lonlat` use global (`EPSG:4326`)
1. If the projection latitude of origin is above 80° N  use northern (`EPSG:3413`)
1. If the projection latitude of origin is below -80° N  use southern (`EPSG:3031`)
1. Otherwise use global (`EPGS:4326`)

#### Scale Extent (Image Bounds)

The default scale extent for an output image is computed by reprojecting the
input data boundary into the target CRS. It densifies the edges by adding 21
points ([rasterio's
default](https://rasterio.readthedocs.io/en/latest/api/rasterio.warp.html#rasterio.warp.transform_bounds))
to each edge before reprojection to account for non-linear edges produced by
the transformation ensuring inclusion of all data in the output image.

#### Dimensions / Scale Sizes

Output image dimensions can be explicitly included as `width` and `height` in
the harmony message or computed based on the scale extent and scale size
(resolution).

The dimension computations from the scale extent and scale size:
```
height = round((scale_extent['ymax'] - scale_extent['ymin']) / scale_size.y)
width = round((scale_extent['xmax'] - scale_extent['xmin']) / scale_size.x)
```

When a Harmony message contains neither `dimensions` nor `scaleSizes` a default
set of dimensions is computed.

For coarse input data, the resolution (scale size) is used with the scale
extent to compute the output dimensions. For high resolution data, finer than
2km per gridcell, the input resolution is used to lookup the closest GIBS
preferred resolution (Table 4.1.8-1 and -2 from the ICD) and the preferred
resolution along with the scale extent is used to compute the output image
dimensions.

### Customizations

Users can request customizations to the output images such as `crs`,
`scale_extents`, or `scale_sizes` and dimensions (`height` & `width`) in the
harmony request. However, the generated outputs may not be compatible with
GIBS.

When a user customizes `scale_extent` or `scale_size`, they must also include a
`crs` in the request. The units of the cusomized values must match the target
CRS. For example, specifying a bounding box in degrees requires a target CRS
also with units of degrees.


## Repository structure:

```
|- 📂 bin
|- 📂 docker
|- 📂 docs
|- 📂 hybig
|- 📂 harmony_service_entry
|- 📂 tests
|- CHANGELOG.md
|- CONTRIBUTING.md
|- LICENSE
|- README.md
|- dev-requirements.txt
|- legacy-CHANGELOG.md
|- pip_requirements.txt
|- pip_requirements_skip_snyk.txt
```

* `bin` - A directory containing utility scripts to build the service and test
  images. A script to extract the release notes for the most recent service
  version, as contained in `CHANGELOG.md` is also in this directory.

* `docker` - A directory containing the Dockerfiles for the service and test
  images. It also contains `service_version.txt`, which contains the semantic
  version number of the service image. Any time an update is made that should
  have an accompanying service image release, this file should be updated.

* `docs` - A directory with example usage notebooks.

* `hybig` - A directory containing Python source code
  for the HyBIG library.  This directory contains the business logic for
  generating GIBS compatible browse images.

* `harmony_service_entry` - A directory containing the Harmony Service specific
  python code. `adapter.py` contains the `BrowseImageGeneratorAdapter` class
  that is invoked by calls to the service.

* `tests` - A directory containing the service unit test suite.

* `CHANGELOG.md` - This file contains a record of changes applied to each new
  release of a service Docker image. Any release of a new service version
  should have a record of what was changed in this file.

* `CONTRIBUTING.md` - This file contains guidance for making contributions to
  HyBIG, including recommended git best practices.

* `LICENSE` - Required for distribution under NASA open-source
  approval. Details conditions for use, reproduction and distribution.

* `README.md` - This file, containing guidance on developing the service.

* `dev-requirements.txt` - list of packages required for service development.

* `legacy-CHANGELOG.md` - Notes for each version that was previously released
  internally to EOSDIS, prior to open-source publication of the code and Docker
  image.

* `pip_requirements.txt` - A list of service Python package dependencies.

* `pip_requirements_skip_snyk.txt` - A list of service Python package
   dependencies that are not scanned by snyk for vulnerabilities.  This file
   contains only the `GDAL` package. It is separated because snyk's scanning is
   naive and cannot pre-install required libraries so that `pip install GDAL`
   fails and we have no work around.


## Local development:

Local testing of service functionality is best achieved via a local instance of
[Harmony](https://github.com/nasa/harmony). Please see instructions there
regarding creation of a local Harmony instance.

If testing small functions locally that do not require inputs from the main
Harmony application, it is recommended that you create a Python virtual
environment, and then install the necessary dependencies for the
service within that environment via conda and pip then install the pre-commit hooks.

```
> conda create --name hybig-env python==3.11
> pip install -r pip_requirements.txt -r pip_requirements_skip_snyk.txt
> pip install -r dev-requirements.txt

> pre-commit install
```


## Tests:

This service utilises the Python `unittest` package to perform unit tests on
classes and functions in the service. After local development is complete, and
test have been updated, they can be run in Docker via:

```bash
$ ./bin/build-image
$ ./bin/build-test
$ ./bin/run-test
```

The `tests/run_tests.sh` script will also generate a coverage report, rendered
in HTML, and scan the code with `pylint`.

Currently, the `unittest` suite is run automatically within a GitHub workflow
as part of a CI/CD pipeline. These tests are run for all changes made in a PR
against the `main` branch. The tests must pass in order to merge the PR.

The unit tests are also run prior to publication of a new Docker image, when
commits including changes to `docker/service_version.txt` are merged into the
`main` branch. If these unit tests fail, the new version of the Docker image
will not be published.

## Versioning:

Service Docker images for HyBIG adhere to semantic version numbers:
major.minor.patch.

* Major increments: These are non-backwards compatible API changes.
* Minor increments: These are backwards compatible API changes.
* Patch increments: These updates do not affect the API to the service.

When publishing a new Docker image for the service, two files need to be
updated:

* `CHANGELOG.md` - Notes should be added to capture the changes to the service.
* `docker/service_version.txt` - The semantic version number should be updated.

## CI/CD:

The CI/CD for HyBIG is contained in GitHub workflows in the
`.github/workflows` directory:

* `run_tests.yml` - A reusable workflow that builds the service and test Docker
  images, then runs the Python unit test suite in an instance of the test
  Docker container.
* `run_tests_on_pull_requests.yml` - Triggered for all PRs against the `main`
  branch. It runs the workflow in `run_tests.yml` to ensure all tests pass for
  the new code.
* `publish_docker_image.yml` - Triggered either manually or for commits to the
  `main` branch that contain changes to the `docker/service_version.txt` file.

The `publish_docker_image.yml` workflow will:

* Run the full unit test suite, to prevent publication of broken code.
* Extract the semantic version number from `docker/service_version.txt`.
* Extract the released notes for the most recent version from `CHANGELOG.md`.
* Create a GitHub release that will also tag the related git commit with the
  semantic version number.
* Build and deploy a this service's docker image to `ghcr.io`.

Before triggering a release, ensure both the `docker/service_version.txt` and
`CHANGELOG.md` files are updated. The `CHANGELOG.md` file requires a specific
format for a new release, as it looks for the following string to define the
newest release of the code (starting at the top of the file).

```
## vX.Y.Z - YYYY-MM-DD
```

### pre-commit hooks:

This repository uses [pre-commit](https://pre-commit.com/) to enable pre-commit
checking the repository for some coding standard best practices. These include:

* Removing trailing whitespaces.
* Removing blank lines at the end of a file.
* JSON files have valid formats.
* [ruff](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff) Python linting checks.
* [black](https://black.readthedocs.io/en/stable/index.html) Python code
  formatting checks.

To enable these checks locally:

```bash
# Install pre-commit Python package as part of test requirements:
pip install -r tests/pip_test_requirements.txt

# Install the git hook scripts:
pre-commit install

# (Optional) Run against all files:
pre-commit run --all-files
```

When you try to make a new commit locally, `pre-commit` will automatically run.
If any of the hooks detect non-compliance (e.g., trailing whitespace), that
hook will state it failed, and also try to fix the issue. You will need to
review and `git add` the changes before you can make a commit.

It is planned to implement additional hooks, possibly including tools such as
`mypy`.

[pre-commit.ci](pre-commit.ci) is configured such that these same hooks will be
automatically run for every pull request.

## Releasing a new version of the service:

Once a new Docker image has been published with a new semantic version tag,
that service version can be released to a Harmony environment by following the
directions in the [Harmony Managing Existing Services
Guide](https://github.com/nasa/harmony/blob/main/docs/guides/managing-existing-services.md).

## Get in touch:

You can reach out to the maintainers of this repository via email:

* david.p.auty@nasa.gov
* matthew.savoie@colorado.edu
* owen.m.littlejohns@nasa.gov
